docs/fixes/session_management_fix.md, before:

# MCP Session Management Fix

## Issue Description

When attempting to invoke MCP tools like `retrieve_address_objects`, users encounter a "Could not find session" error (HTTP 404), despite having correct credentials in the environment.

## Root Cause

The issue is not related to the Palo Alto API credentials, which are being correctly loaded from the `.env` file. Instead, it's a session management issue between the MCP client and server:

1. **Inconsistent Endpoint Configuration**: The client is trying to connect to a session that doesn't exist or was not properly initialized.

2. **Endpoint Path Mismatch**: As previously documented in [endpoint_path_standardization.md](./endpoint_path_standardization.md), there was an inconsistency between the documented endpoints and the actual server implementation.

3. **MCP Session Lifecycle**: The MCP session is likely not being properly established between the client and server before tool calls are made.

## Diagnosis Steps

1. Confirmed environment variables are loading correctly:
   ```
   DEBUG - Loaded PANOS_API_KEY from environment: e6bc89fb...zDrYsIBq
   DEBUG - Loaded PANOS_HOSTNAME from environment: dallas.cdot.io
   ```

2. Verified server is running and can handle basic requests (health check returns `{"status":"OK"}`).

3. Determined that the "Could not find session" error occurs at the MCP protocol level, not at the Palo Alto API level.

## Solution

To fix this issue:

1. **Ensure Client-Server Session Initialization**:
   - The client must first establish a session with `/sse` endpoint
   - Only after the session is established can tool calls be made

2. **Update Client Configuration**:
   ```json
   {
     "endpoint": "http://localhost:8001/sse",
     "messageEndpoint": "http://localhost:8001/messages/"
   }
   ```

3. **Standardize Session Handling**:
   - Add more robust error handling in the MCP server to provide clearer error messages
   - Implement session timeout and reconnection logic

## Implementation

1. Update the MCP server to provide more detailed logging of session establishment and errors.

2. Add a debug endpoint to verify Palo Alto API connectivity separately from MCP session issues.

3. Ensure the client is using the correct session initialization process before making tool calls.

## Verification

After implementing the fix:

1. Start the MCP server with: `poetry run python src/main.py`
2. Connect an MCP client to the server using the correct endpoint configuration
3. Verify session establishment before attempting tool calls
4. Confirm successful retrieval of address objects

## Prevention

To prevent similar issues in the future:

1. Maintain consistent endpoint paths between documentation and implementation
2. Add more detailed logging and error messages specific to session management
3. Create a health check endpoint that verifies both MCP server status and Palo Alto API connectivity

Commit message:

Initial commit: Add MCP SDK with session management and API endpoints

docs/fixes/session_management_fix.md, after:

# DEPRECATED - See mcp_session_management_consolidated.md

This document contains historical analysis that has been superseded by the consolidated fix document.

# MCP Session Management Fix

## Issue Description

When attempting to invoke MCP tools like `retrieve_address_objects`, users encounter a "Could not find session" error (HTTP 404), despite having correct credentials in the environment.

## Root Cause

The issue is not related to the Palo Alto API credentials, which are being correctly loaded from the `.env` file. Instead, it's a session management issue between the MCP client and server:

1. **Inconsistent Endpoint Configuration**: The client is trying to connect to a session that doesn't exist or was not properly initialized.

2. **Endpoint Path Mismatch**: As previously documented in [endpoint_path_standardization.md](./endpoint_path_standardization.md), there was an inconsistency between the documented endpoints and the actual server implementation.

3. **MCP Session Lifecycle**: The MCP session is likely not being properly established between the client and server before tool calls are made.

## Diagnosis Steps

1. Confirmed environment variables are loading correctly:
   ```
   DEBUG - Loaded PANOS_API_KEY from environment: e6bc89fb...zDrYsIBq
   DEBUG - Loaded PANOS_HOSTNAME from environment: dallas.cdot.io
   ```

2. Verified server is running and can handle basic requests (health check returns `{"status":"OK"}`).

3. Determined that the "Could not find session" error occurs at the MCP protocol level, not at the Palo Alto API level.

## Solution

To fix this issue:

1. **Ensure Client-Server Session Initialization**:
   - The client must first establish a session with `/sse` endpoint
   - Only after the session is established can tool calls be made

2. **Update Client Configuration**:
   ```json
   {
     "endpoint": "http://localhost:8001/sse",
     "messageEndpoint": "http://localhost:8001/messages/"
   }
   ```

3. **Standardize Session Handling**:
   - Add more robust error handling in the MCP server to provide clearer error messages
   - Implement session timeout and reconnection logic

## Implementation

1. Update the MCP server to provide more detailed logging of session establishment and errors.

2. Add a debug endpoint to verify Palo Alto API connectivity separately from MCP session issues.

3. Ensure the client is using the correct session initialization process before making tool calls.

## Verification

After implementing the fix:

1. Start the MCP server with: `poetry run python src/main.py`
2. Connect an MCP client to the server using the correct endpoint configuration
3. Verify session establishment before attempting tool calls
4. Confirm successful retrieval of address objects

## Prevention

To prevent similar issues in the future:

1. Maintain consistent endpoint paths between documentation and implementation
2. Add more detailed logging and error messages specific to session management
3. Create a health check endpoint that verifies both MCP server status and Palo Alto API connectivity
